### Introduction

ASP.NET Boilerplate provides an infrastructure to build modules and
compose them to create an application. A module can depend on another
module. Generally, an assembly is considered as a module. If you created
an application with more than one assembly, it's suggested to create a
module definition for each assembly.

Module system is currently focused on server side rather than client
side.

### Module Definition

A module is defined with a class that is derived from **AbpModule**. Say
that we're developing a Blog module that can be used in different
applications. Simplest module definition can be as shown below:

    public class MyBlogApplicationModule : AbpModule
    {
        public override void Initialize()
        {
            IocManager.RegisterAssemblyByConvention(Assembly.GetExecutingAssembly());
        }
    }

Module definition class is responsible to register it's classes to
[dependency injection](Dependency-Injection.md) (can be done
conventionally as shown above) if needed. It can configure application
and other modules, add new features to the application and so on...

### Lifecycle Methods

ASP.NET Boilerplate calls some specific methods of modules on
application startup and shutdown. You can override these methods to
perform some specific tasks.

ASP.NET Boilerplate calls these methods **ordered by dependecies**. If
module A depends on module B, module B is initialized before module A.
Exact order of startup methods: PreInitialize-B, PreInitialize-A,
Initialize-B, Initialize-A, PostInitialize-B and PostInitialize-A. This
is true for all dependency graph. **Shutdown** method is also similar
but in **reverse order**.

#### PreInitialize

This method is called first when application starts. It's usual method
to [configure](Startup-Configuration.md) the framework and other
modules before they initialize.

Also, you can write some specific code here to run before dependency
injection registrations. For example, if you create a [conventional
registration](Dependency-Injection.md) class, you should register it
here using IocManager.AddConventionalRegisterer method.

#### Initialize

It's the usual place where [dependency
injection](/Pages/Documents/Dependency-Injection) registration should be
done. It's generally done using IocManager.RegisterAssemblyByConvention
method. If you want to define custom dependency registration, see
[dependency injection documentation](Dependency-Injection.md).

#### PostInitialize

This method is called lastly in startup progress. It's safe to resolve a
dependency here.

#### Shutdown

This method is called when the application shuts down.

### Module Dependencies

A module can be dependent to another. It's required to **explicitly**
declare dependencies using **DependsOn** attribute like below:

    [DependsOn(typeof(MyBlogCoreModule))]
    public class MyBlogApplicationModule : AbpModule
    {
        public override void Initialize()
        {
            IocManager.RegisterAssemblyByConvention(Assembly.GetExecutingAssembly());
        }
    }

Thus, we declare to ASP.NET Boilerplate that MyBlogApplicationModule
depends on MyBlogCoreModule and the MyBlogCoreModule should be
initialized before the MyBlogApplicationModule.

ABP can resolve dependencies recursively beginning from the **startup
module** and initialize them accordingly. Startup module initialized as
the last module.

### PlugIn Modules

While modules are investigated beginning from startup module and going
to dependencies, ABP can also load modules **dynamically**.
**AbpBootstrapper** class defines **PlugInSources** property which can
be used to add sources to dynamically load plugin modules. A plugin
source can be any class implements **IPlugInSource** interface.
**PlugInFolderSource** class implements it to get plugin modules from
assemblies located in a folder.

#### ASP.NET Core

ABP ASP.NET Core module defines options in **AddAbp** extension method
to add plugin sources in **Startup** class:

    services.AddAbp<MyStartupModule>(options =>
    {
        options.PlugInSources.Add(new FolderPlugInSource(@"C:\MyPlugIns"));
    });

We could use **AddFolder** extension method for a simpler syntax:

    services.AddAbp<MyStartupModule>(options =>
    {
        options.PlugInSources.AddFolder(@"C:\MyPlugIns");
    });

See [ASP.NET Core document](AspNet-Core.md) for more on Startup class.

#### ASP.NET MVC, Web API

For classic ASP.NET MVC applications, we can add plugin folders by
overriding **Application\_Start** in **global.asax** as shown below:

    public class MvcApplication : AbpWebApplication<MyStartupModule>
    {
        protected override void Application_Start(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            AbpBootstrapper.PlugInSources.AddFolder(@"C:\MyPlugIns");
            //...
            base.Application_Start(sender, e);
        }
    }

##### <span lang="tr">Controllers in PlugIns</span>

<span lang="tr">If your modules include MVC or Web API Controllers,
ASP.NET can not investigate your controllers. To overcome this issue,
you can change global.asax file like below:</span>

    using System.Web;
    using Abp.PlugIns;
    using Abp.Web;
    using MyDemoApp.Web;

    [assembly: PreApplicationStartMethod(typeof(PreStarter), "Start")]

    namespace MyDemoApp.Web
    {
        public class MvcApplication : AbpWebApplication<MyStartupModule>
        {
        }

        public static class PreStarter
        {
            public static void Start()
            {
                //...
                MvcApplication.AbpBootstrapper.PlugInSources.AddFolder(@"C:\MyPlugIns\");
                MvcApplication.AbpBootstrapper.PlugInSources.AddToBuildManager();
            }
        }
    }

### Additional Assemblies

Default implementations for IAssemblyFinder and ITypeFinder (which is
used by ABP to investigate specific classes in the application) only
finds module assemblies and types in those assemblies. We can override
**GetAdditionalAssemblies** method in our module to include additional
assemblies.

### Custom Module Methods

Your modules also can have custom methods those can be used by other
modules depend on this module. Assume that MyModule2 depends on
MyModule1 and wants to call a method of MyModule1 in PreInitialize.

    public class MyModule1 : AbpModule
    {
        public override void Initialize()
        {
            IocManager.RegisterAssemblyByConvention(Assembly.GetExecutingAssembly());
        }

        public void MyModuleMethod1()
        {
            //this is a custom method of this module
        }
    }

    [DependsOn(typeof(MyModule1))]
    public class MyModule2 : AbpModule
    {
        private readonly MyModule1 _myModule1;

        public MyModule2(MyModule1 myModule1)
        {
            _myModule1 = myModule1;
        }

        public override void PreInitialize()
        {
            _myModule1.MyModuleMethod1(); //Call MyModule1's method
        }

        public override void Initialize()
        {
            IocManager.RegisterAssemblyByConvention(Assembly.GetExecutingAssembly());
        }
    }

Here, we constructor-injected MyModule1 to MyModule2, so MyModule2 can
call MyModule1's custom method. This is only possible if Module2 depends
on Module1.

### Module Configuration

While custom module methods can be used to configure modules, we suggest
to use [startup configuration](Startup-Configuration.md) system to
define and set configuration for modules.

### Module Lifetime

Module classes are automatically registered as **singleton**.
