ASP.NET Boilerplate provides an infrastructure and a model to configure
it and [modules](/Pages/Documents/Module-System) on startup.

### Configuring ASP.NET Boilerplate

Configuring ASP.NET Boilerplate is made on **PreInitialize** event of
your module. Example configuration:

    public class SimpleTaskSystemModule : AbpModule
    {
        public override void PreInitialize()
        {
            //Add languages for your application
            Configuration.Localization.Languages.Add(new LanguageInfo("en", "English", "famfamfam-flag-england", true));
            Configuration.Localization.Languages.Add(new LanguageInfo("tr", "Türkçe", "famfamfam-flag-tr"));

            //Add a localization source
            Configuration.Localization.Sources.Add(
                new XmlLocalizationSource(
                    "SimpleTaskSystem",
                    HttpContext.Current.Server.MapPath("~/Localization/SimpleTaskSystem")
                    )
                );

            //Configure navigation/menu
            Configuration.Navigation.Providers.Add<SimpleTaskSystemNavigationProvider>();        
        }

        public override void Initialize()
        {
            IocManager.RegisterAssemblyByConvention(Assembly.GetExecutingAssembly());
        }
    }

ASP.NET Boilerplate is designed **[modularity](Module-System.md)** in
mind. Different modules can configure ASP.NET Boilerplate. For example,
different modules can add navigation provider to add their own menu
items to the main menu. (See
[localization](/Pages/Documents/Localization) and
[navigation](/Pages/Documents/Navigation) documents for details on
configuring them).

#### Replacing Built-In Services

**Configuration.ReplaceService** method can be used to **override** a
built-in service. For example, you can replace IAbpSession service with
your custom implementation as shown below:

    Configuration.ReplaceService<IAbpSession, MySession>(DependencyLifeStyle.Transient);

ReplaceService method has an overload to pass an **action** to make
replacement in a custom way (you can directly use Castle Windsor for
advanced registration API).

Same service can be replaced multiple times (especially, in different
modules). Last replaced will be valid (As you know, module PreInitialize
methods are executed by [dependency order](Module-System.md)).

### Configuring Modules

Beside framework's own startup configuration, a module can extend
**IAbpModuleConfigurations** interface to provide configuration points
for the module. Example:

    ...
    using Abp.Web.Configuration;
    ...
    public override void PreInitialize() 
    {
        Configuration.Modules.AbpWebCommon().SendAllExceptionsToClients = true;
    }
    ...

In this example, we configured AbpWebCommon module to send all
exceptions to clients.

Not every module should define this type of configuration. It's
generally needed when a module will be re-usable in different
applications and needs to be configured on startup.

### Creating Configuration For a Module

Assume that we have a module named MyModule and it has some
configuration properties. First, we create a class for these cofigurable
properties:

    public class MyModuleConfig
    {
        public bool SampleConfig1 { get; set; }

        public string SampleConfig2 { get; set; }
    }

Then we register this class to [Dependency
Injection](Dependency-Injection.md) on **PreInitialize** event of
MyModule (Thus, it will be injectable):

    IocManager.Register<MyModuleConfig>();

It should be registered as **Singleton** as in this sample. Now, we can
use the following code to configure MyModule in our module's
PreInitialize method:

    Configuration.Get<MyModuleConfig>().SampleConfig1 = false;

While we can use IAbpStartupConfiguration.Get method as shown below, we
can create an extension method to IModuleConfigurations like that:

    public static class MyModuleConfigurationExtensions
    {
        public static MyModuleConfig MyModule(this IModuleConfigurations moduleConfigurations)
        {
            return moduleConfigurations.AbpConfiguration.Get<MyModuleConfig>();
        }
    }

Now, other modules can configure this module using the extension method:

    Configuration.Modules.MyModule().SampleConfig1 = false;
    Configuration.Modules.MyModule().SampleConfig2 = "test";

This makes easy to investigate module configurations and collect them in
a single place (Configuration.Modules...). ABP itself defines extension
methods for it's own module configurations.

At some point, MyModule needs to this configuration. You can inject
MyModuleConfig and use configured values. Example:

    public class MyService : ITransientDependency
    {
        private readonly MyModuleConfig _configuration;

        public MyService(MyModuleConfig configuration)
        {
            _configuration = configuration;
        }

        public void DoIt()
        {
            if (_configuration.SampleConfig2 == "test")
            {
                //...
            }
        }
    }

Thus, modules can create central configuration points in ASP.NET
Boilerplate system.
