### Introduction

The easiest way of starting a new project using ABP with **ASP.NET
Core** with **Angular** is to create a template on [templates
page](/Templates). Remember to check "**Include module zero**". After
creating and downloading your project, follow below steps to run your
application.

### ASP.NET Core Application

-   Open your solution on **Visual Studio 2017 v15.3.5+** and **build**
    the solution.
-   Select the '**Web.Host**' project as **startup project**.
-   Open **Package Manager Console** and run **Update-Database** command
    to create your database (ensure that Default project is selected as
    **.EntityFrameworkCore** in the Package Manager Console window).
-   Run the application. It will show **swagger-ui** if it is
    successfull:

<img src="../images/swagger-ui-module-zero-core-template.png" alt="Swagger UI" class="img-thumbnail" />

In this template, **multi-tenancy is enabled by default**. You can
disable it in Core project's module class if you don't need.

If you have problems with running the application, please try close and
open your Visual Studio again. It sometimes fail on first package
restore.

### Angular Application

#### Prerequirements

Angular application needs to following tools be installed:

-   [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) 6.9+ with npm 3.10+
-   Typescript 2.0+

We used [angular-cli](https://cli.angular.io/) to develop the Angular
application.

#### Restore Packages

Open a command prompt, navigate to **angular** folder which contains
\*.sln file and run the following command to **restore npm packages**:

    npm install

Notice that npm install may show some warn messages, which is not
related to our solution and generally it's not a problem. The solution
can also configured to work with [**yarn**](https://yarnpkg.com/) and we
suggest to use it if available on your computer.

#### Run The Application

In your opened command prompt, run the following command:

    npm start

Once the application compiled, you can browse <http://localhost:4200> in
your browser. Be sure that Web.Host application is running at the same
time. When you open the application, you will see the **login page**:

<img src="../images/module-zero-core-template-ui-login.png" alt="Login Page" class="img-thumbnail" />

Angular client app has also **HMR** (Hot Module Replacement) enabled.
You can use the following command (instead of npm start) to enable HMR
on development time:

    npm run hmr

#### Login

Now you can login the application using default credentials. User name
is '**admin**' and password is '**123qwe**' as default. If you want to
login as a tenant, first switch to that tenant in login page. There is a
tenant named "Default" by default. Once you login successfully, you will
see a dashboard:

<img src="../images/module-zero-core-template-ui-home.png" alt="Dashboard" class="img-thumbnail" />

This dashboard is just for demonstration and to be a base for your
actual dashboard.

#### Deployment of Angular Application

We used **angular-cli** tooling to build Angular solution. You can use
**ng build** command to publish your project. It publishes to **dist**
folder by default. Then you can host this folder on IIS or any web
server you like.

### Solution Details & Other Features

#### Token Based Authentication

If you want to consume APIs/application services from a mobile
application, you can use token based authentication mechanism just like
we do it for Angular client. Startup template includes JwtBearer token
authentication infrastructure.

Here, **Postman** (chrome extension) will be used to demonstrate
requests and responses.

##### Authentication

Just send a **POST** request to
**http://localhost:21021/api/TokenAuth/Authenticate** with
**Context-Type="application/json"** header as shown below:

<img src="../images/swagger-ui-angular-auth.png" alt="Swagger UI auth" class="img-thumbnail" />

We sent values **usernameOrEmailAddress** and **password**. As seen
above, result property of returning JSON contains the token and expire
time (which is 24 hours by default and can be configured). We can save
it and use for next requests.

**About Multi Tenancy  
**API will work as host users by default. You can send **Abp.TenantId**
header value to work with a specified tenant. It's an integer value and
1 for default tenant by default.

##### Use API

After authenticate and get the **token**, we can use it to call any
**authorized** action. All **application services** are available to be
used remotely. For example, we can use the **User service** to get a
**list of users**:

<img src="../images/swagger-ui-angular-api-v2.png" alt="Using API" class="img-thumbnail" />

Just made a **GET** request to
**http://localhost:21021/api/services/app/user/getAll** with
**Content-Type="application/json"** and **Authorization="Bearer
*your-******auth-token*** **"**. All functionality available on UI is
also available as API.

#### Migrator Console Application

Startup template includes a tool, Migrator.exe, to easily migrate your
databases. You can run this application to create/migrate host and
tenant databases.

<img src="../images/database-migrator.png" alt="Database Migrator" class="img-thumbnail" />

This application gets host connection string from it's **own
appsettings.json file**. It will be same in the appsettings.json in the
.Web.Host project at the beggining. Be sure that the connection string
in config file is the database you want. After getting **host**
**connection sring**, it first creates the host database or apply
migrations if it does already exists. Then it gets connection strings of
tenant databases and runs migrations for those databases. It skips a
tenant if it has not a dedicated database or it's database is already
migrated for another tenant (for shared databases between multiple
tenants).

You can use this tool on development or on product environment to
migrate databases on deployment, instead of EntityFramework's own
tooling (which requires some configuration and can work for single
database/tenant in one run).

#### Unit Testing

Startup template includes test infrastructure setup and a few tests
under the .Test project. You can check them and write similar tests
easily. Actually, they are integration tests rather than unit tests
since they tests your code with all ASP.NET Boilerplate infrastructure
(including validation, authorization, unit of work...).

### Source Code

This project template is developed as open source and free under Github:
<https://github.com/aspnetboilerplate/module-zero-core-template>
